Before you go ahead and create your first Facebook card it's very important that you understand the
keys to success.
Many beginner advertisers dive straight in and it's no wonder that they struggle to get click through
conversions on a return on their investments by watching this lecture.
You will be able to avoid those common mistakes and really understand the seven things that you need
to focus on in order to create Facebook accounts that will grow your business.
This video is essentially a crash course in Facebook ads.
So I highly recommend that you grab a pen and paper right now.
Start taking notes because this is going to save you a huge amount of time money and frustration.
The first key to success with Facebook ads is targeting and targeting simply means getting your ads
in front of the right audience.
This is not only the first key to success but it is the most important one where I recommend you put
most of your attention.
The simple reason that targeting is so important is because there is such a massive audience on Facebook.
There's over 1.8 billion active users.
And for example if you wanted to get just 180000 customers from that audience over 1.8 billion people
we're talking about a tiny tiny tiny percentage 0.01 percent.
So you need to be really laser focused in who you put your ads in front of because remember that Facebook
is an advertising company and if you hand them money they are going to spend it.
So the onus is really on you to get your ads in front of the right people.
If you want to get the best results.
The great news is that there is a ton of great ways to target your ads on Facebook and I want to give
you an overview of them right now.
So the first way to Target for ads on Facebook is with core targeting and this allows you to put your
odds in front of people who may be near you in a radius by demographics.
Male Female what age they are interests.
What Facebook pages they like or their behaviors online.
And if they're connected to your Facebook page or not there when this came out initially this was revolutionary
and gave Facebook a huge advantage in the online advertising space because they had all this information
from the US when we created our profiles.
That's why this information was so accurate and such an amazing thing when it first came out for advertisers.
However the game has changed now and there is a new type of targeting that is even more powerful.
It's called Custom audiences.
And if you aren't using these you're advertising like it's five years ago because custom audiences really
allow you to target people on Facebook who you already have a relationship with.
And as you can imagine that's much easier to get a sale out of instead of just hitting up somebody who's
cold who hasn't heard about your business or maybe targeting someone who's already been to your Web
site you know a much better chance of getting a sale.
Now in terms of the different types of custom audiences they are many different ones.
But the general thing that links them together are general team is retargeting or remarketing.
So retargeting to people who've already engaged with say your web site and creating a custom audience
of those people you need to have the Facebook pixel in order to do it are going to show you exactly
how to do that step by step.
You can create a custom audience and retarget people who are on your email list who have engaged with
your Facebook page who have engaged with your app you need to have the SDK installed to enable that.
That's essentially the equivalent of the Facebook pixel and you can also create custom audiences in
many different ways.
Even people who have watched a video that you put on Facebook you could retarget those people would
say lead and get leads out of them.
So extremely powerful extremely flexible and Ill actually be showing you had set up all of these custom
audiences.
Later on in the course so let's look at some use cases to try and bring this to life.
So taking the example of an e-commerce site let's imagine that we wanted to remarket to people who had
visited our online shop.
We can do that and make it even very personalized by using this type of remarketing called dynamic product
remarketing.
So in the ad here that we can see on the right hand side are the exact products that I looked at at
the Adidas store.
I could see them in my Facebook news feed and I can go ahead and shop straight away.
So thats just one example you can shoot and a ton of different ways but you can see the power of remarketing
using these custom audiences over just targeting people by interests who may be interested in your product
but haven't even taken a step to visit your website.
Now the third and final way to Target on Facebook is through look alike audiences and these are really
a marketer's best friend because they allow you to scale your marketing efforts extremely efficiently.
So a lookalike audience helps you to reach people who were like your current customers website visitors
or Facebook fans what they actually do is you use a source audience.
So one of the custom audiences that you've created and then use that to find similar people on Facebook.
So for example I had a source Ionians of 10000 people and I was able to scale that into a targeted audience
of two million people who were similar to that audience of 10000 people who had visited my web site.
So extremely extremely valuable way that you can still scale your marketing efforts in a targeted way.
So how would you start from scratch you might say OK that's great but I don't have any people coming
to my Web site or using my app yet.
So the process would be you might run an ad starting using Core targeting interests that type of stuff
then you get those people to maybe come to your Web site or have a look at your app you can create a
custom audience of those people and then on the back of that you could create a lookalike audience.
So it is a process that you can build up and take advantage of all of these types of audience even if
you're starting from scratch right now.
So that wraps up the first key to success which is targeting.
Now we're looking at the second key to success which is funnels.
So what is a marketing funnel and how does it really apply to Facebook ads.
Well here is actually a screen shot from inside the ads ads create two where you create Facebook ads
and you can see those three columns here awareness consideration and conversion.
And this is essentially the funnel although it's on its side.
So people first become aware of your product then they actually consider taking an action like watching
a video going to your Web site.
And then finally they'll converge make a sale or sign up or visit your store in person.
So that's the type of marketing funnel.
And this is an important mindframe to think in because Facebook ads and the Facebook platform is actually
different than google and google adwords.
You don't hear a lot of talk about funnels in Google and that's because on the right hand side here
you can see when people go to Google they type in something like Nike shoes.
I can see the ads pop up right there but that's because I've already decided to buy Nike shoes or I'm
interested in them because I'm typing them into Google.
So my intention is much clearer and I'm probably much further down that funnel that we've talked about
now over on the left hand side here I don't go to Facebook and I don't browse my news feed because I
have a specific thing in mind.
I'm really there to connect with friends and that's why you may need to make people more aware about
your product first in Facebook and then start to move them down the funnel towards the sale.
So here's an example of a couple of funnels that you could set up and think about say for example we
wanted to get sales for an e-book an online course or anything.
Firstly what you could do is starting off and get some traffic to a landing page where you give away
a free ebook or something like that.
People pop in their email you get their email address and then you start an email sales funnel to get
sales.
That's one example.
Another thing that you could do if you're an online coach or a local business lawyer or something like
that is you could create a lead and once again give away a PTF or an up option for a free 15 minute
consultation.
People pop in their email address you do the consultation over the phone and you make the sale at the
end of that.
You could also set up a phone something like people to watch a video showing the new features of an
app that you've released and people having a lot of fun with it.
And then you could remarket to those people who watch the videos to install the app.
So there are a couple of examples but the key thing is to think about the funnel and where people are
in that funnel.
Are they even aware of your product.
Could they move to can to consider and take an action.
And are they really ready for the sale before they've even taken that consideration.
Moving on to the third key to success would Facebook ads.
It's for months now.
The key thing here is that you really want to match your ad format to the objective.
There's a lot of different formats for ads on Facebook you can use videos you can use images you can
use what's known as carousel ads.
And here are some basic rules that you can follow if you want to get traffic to your website.
You should use a really an image link God or a carousel.
If you want to get video views or use a video if you want to use collect leads use a lead out in and
leave out forms if you want to get conversions and sales.
Well having a link straight there is going to be better than showing people the video because people
are going to click and go directly there instead of staying on Facebook and watching the video.
Now if you want to run conversion that's member you have to have that Facebook pixel set up.
And if this isn't making sense to you at all.
Don't worry about.
Go into a lot of detail.
More later on.
Finally if you want people to engage with a Facebook post you might be promoting a competition or something
like that.
Usually it is a simple image is going to be the best.
Now moving onto the fourth key to success would Facebook ads its budgets and this is the key question
that comes up how much does it cost to advertise on Facebook.
Well I think there's really two ways to look at this.
One is to look at the absolute minimum.
So this is a screenshot from Facebook for business.
It shows the minimum ad spend for the currencies that are listed up the top here.
So for us the Australian dollar Canadian dollar euro a lot of countries there the minimum spans are
as follows.
If you just want to get impressions of people just to become aware of your ad there is a minimum of
$1 per day but that's just going to be an image.
People won't actually be able to click through if you want people to click to get a like on your Facebook
page to watch your video to engage with the post then the minimum budget is going to be $5 per day if
you want to get something like more of a low frequency event like an opt in.
And the budget is at least $40 per day.
So those are some of the minimums.
Let's have a look at it from another perspective.
And probably the better way that you should be looking at and matching your budget to your goals.
So here are a couple of guidelines for maybe what are the type of expenses that you could be getting.
A big disclaimer.
Is there just a guideline.
You're not on the current guarantee you're going to get these.
But I would encourage you to try and work towards these numbers.
So if you want to get Facebook fans you want a budget maybe 50 cents per fan e-mail subscribers one
dollar per subscriber website traffic maybe about 35 cents per website.
Visit product sales.
You want to budget maybe $30 per conversion and up and sales for free up budgeted by $2 per install.
So results will vary but there is some very rough guidelines to work towards.
Fifth the key to success for Facebook ads is the odd creative and this is what people actually see in
their Facebook news feed.
So here are the four parts to a great and creative.
First it needs to be visual.
Remember that there is going to be a lot of competition for eyeballs in the news feed.
So it needs to catch attention.
Bright colors faces will really stand out so we can see here that this example its visual that pops
really of the background this night.
Nice bright color.
Its relevance because the image is really related to what the ad is about which is freelancing.
Here's to people working at home.
They look like they're having fun at freelancing.
It should include an enticing offer something that's going to catch my attention so interested in becoming
a full time freelancer.
We can see freelancing Asie head start working from home learn from five year full time experience so
that's a pretty enticing offer.
I can learn all that stuff.
And again all of those Copie there is a strong call to action and encouraging me to really learn more
about this.
Let's have a look at one other example.
This is not for Linked-In.
Once again it's Bryce.
We've got a picture of a girl here and a good face catching attention.
It's relevant you can see $50 credits that's a good offer.
And learn more.
Strong call to action to really kick click through and get that offer.
Now D6 key to success with Facebook ads is split testing.
And this is all about really.
If you want to maximize your budgets you need to find out what is most effective in your ads in terms
of copy imagery targeting etc..
So you want to when you put out a campaign not only have just one add one image and one audience that
you're putting it into.
You want to really test different variables.
So here is just one example there's many different ways that you can do this but you could have two
images you want to test which one gets more clicks.
You can see there's a product here in the image or person in the image using the product and then you
really test to see which one performs better.
Now the great news is is these are pretty easy to set up in Facebook and here are just some of the split
tests that you can run.
So in terms of the creative you can test the headline a different image that landing page that you send
people to the placement in terms of does instagram work better than the Facebook news feed or Facebook
mobile in terms of targeting He can try different countries different genders different interests different
consume audiences.
So the Web site custom Ionians email testimonials etc. and there are other things like R-Type image
versus video type etcetera.
So it's just an overview of it.
But the key thing to understand is testing is a big part of Facebook ads.
That's a real key to success to find out what really works for you.
And finally this seventh key to success but Facebook ads is tracking and reporting and the first thing
to do and that's really important before you dive into reports is to define success for yourself.
What are your business goals.
Can you really get sales through emails if that's the goal then start to set some KPI.
For those ads.
What can I put forward per E-MAIL subscriber that really makes sense.
And then you assess the results in terms of the metrics.
There's a lot of different metrics in these reports like CPM to your CPC.
What's really important of all these things and not to leave loose focus is how much is the cost per
desired actions so the cost to get Facebook like if that's what you want is to get an email subscriber.
That's really the key thing to get focused on.
So these reports are not that hard to look at.
Final thing is if you want to track conversions and see how many people from Facebook and say buy a
product on your store you need to have the Facebook pixel set up and even you can track this through
on the medics as well.
Now I'll show you how to do that in terms of tracking reporting.
This is the key message is you need to test learn and iterate and it kind of links back into our split
testing.
You want to really use that reporting as a feedback loop to improve the next campaigns.
I would encourage you to set aside some budget to experiment.
Don't expect to get massive results from the first campaign.
It's going to be a little bit of a process until you find your rhythm.
So to recap here are the seven keys to success with Facebook ads targeting follows odd formats.
Budgets are created split testing and tracking and reporting.
Of course this is just an overview of the keys to success.
Will I keep putting this all into practice as we go through the course.